
i want to data scrape from multiple baseball savant urls, using claude in chrome. the goal is to create a csv file that combines relevant game data. I have had success with this before using multiple techniques. this time i want to create a fully automated data pipeline and process and ultimately a regularly updated website.  Let me explain in some detail before any work is done and we find the best solid method / approach

Feb 21

Recognized user's strategic planning preference for automated pipeline development
Recognized user's strategic planning preference for automated pipeline development

That sounds like a great project! I'm ready to listen and help you think through the best approach. Go ahead and walk me through the details — what URLs you're working with, what data you're targeting, how often you want it updated, and anything else about the end goal for the website. The more context you give me upfront, the better we can design something solid before writing a single line of code.


Baseball Savant Website.txt
45 lines

txt

can i use claude in chrome to create a csv of all the data from the descibed elements of the baseball savant website with one command?

Feb 21

Evaluated feasibility of single-command web scraping approach
Evaluated feasibility of single-command web scraping approach

Great context! Let me give you an honest breakdown before we commit to an approach.

The short answer: yes, largely — but with some important nuances.

Here's what Claude in Chrome can and can't do reliably in one command for this use case:

What works well: Claude in Chrome can navigate to a Baseball Savant gamefeed URL, click through the Scoreboard, Box Score, and Pitch Velocity tabs, extract the rendered data from each, and compile it into a CSV — all in one go for a single game. That's very doable.

Where it gets complex: The "one command" breaks down when you scale to multiple games or multiple dates. Baseball Savant renders a lot of its data dynamically via JavaScript, so the timing of when data is actually available in the DOM matters. Claude in Chrome handles this, but it adds steps and potential for things to go wrong at scale.

The bigger picture — your pipeline goal: Since you want a fully automated, regularly updated pipeline and website, Claude in Chrome alone isn't the right long-term backbone. It's great for exploration and one-off extractions, but for automation on a schedule you'd want something more like:

A Python script (using requests + BeautifulSoup, or Selenium/Playwright) that hits the Baseball Savant URLs, extracts the three data views, and writes CSVs — this can run on a cron job
Claude in Chrome used to reverse-engineer exactly what API calls Baseball Savant makes under the hood (it likely calls internal MLB StatsAPI endpoints), which would make the Python script much cleaner and more reliable than scraping rendered HTML
A static site generator or simple web dashboard that reads the CSV and displays it, auto-updated when the script runs
My recommendation before any work: Let me use Claude in Chrome to inspect one gamefeed page and see whether Baseball Savant is pulling data from a clean underlying API. If it is, your entire pipeline becomes much simpler — just call the API directly, no scraping needed. That's a 5-minute investigation that could save hours of scraping complexity.

Want me to do that first? And can you confirm — are you thinking about one game at a time, all games on a given day, or a full season's worth of data?

before we shift to claude in chrome, the idea will be one download in the morning at a set time when all game results are complete and shown before baseball savant sets up the new days games. there will be lots of conflicts when it comes to double headers ( teams play twice in same day) rain delay or canceled games. make note of this so we can error hand and edge case later.

now what is the next step you suggest?

Feb 21

Assessed pipeline strategy and identified edge cases requiring handling
Assessed pipeline strategy and identified edge cases requiring handling

Good thinking — nailing down the architecture before touching any code is the right move. Here's what I'd suggest as the next logical step:

Use Claude in Chrome to reverse-engineer what Baseball Savant is actually doing under the hood on a gamefeed page.

Specifically, I'd open the browser dev tools Network tab while clicking through Scoreboard, Box Score, and Pitch Velocity on a real gamefeed URL and watch what API calls fire. Baseball Savant is an MLB property and almost certainly pulls from the MLB StatsAPI behind the scenes. If we can identify those endpoints, your pipeline becomes hitting clean JSON APIs rather than scraping rendered HTML — infinitely more reliable and faster.

This one investigation answers the most important architectural question: are we scraping or are we calling an API? Everything downstream depends on that answer.

While we're in there, we'd also note:

How the page discovers which games exist for a given date (the scoreboard/banner listing all games) — this is how we'll build the "get all game IDs for yesterday" step
How double headers appear in the game list — they'll likely show as two separate gamePk values for the same two teams, which is actually clean to handle once we know the pattern
Whether postponed or canceled games have a distinct status flag in the data, so we can log them and skip gracefully rather than erroring out
After that investigation, the next decisions become clear:

Whether we build a Python script, how we schedule it, how we store the data, and what the website layer looks like.

Want me to open Chrome now and do that network inspection on a real gamefeed page?

yes

Feb 21

Examined page data and orchestrated network interception strategy
Examined page data and orchestrated network interception strategy






Good, the page loaded. Now let me inject a network interceptor to catch all API calls, then click through each tab.


Javascript tool
Javascript tool

Now let me scroll down and find the Scoreboard, Box Score, and Pitch Velocity buttons and click each one.


Examined navigation tabs and orchestrated API call capture
Examined navigation tabs and orchestrated API call capture





I can see the tabs. Scoreboard is already active and showing data. Let me click Box Score and Pitch Velocity to capture the API calls.


Pivoted to alternative data retrieval method
Pivoted to alternative data retrieval method






Let me use the network requests tool instead.


Reconsidered network monitoring initialization strategy
Reconsidered network monitoring initialization strategy


The network tracker needs to be active before page load. Let me reload and capture fresh.


Identified API endpoints and planned systematic exploration
Identified API endpoints and planned systematic exploration





Excellent — already found gold! I can see statsapi.mlb.com and baseballsavant.mlb.com/schedule calls. Let me get the rest of the requests and click the tabs.


Identified API endpoints and planned interactive exploration
Identified API endpoints and planned interactive exploration


Now let me scroll down to click the tabs and capture the gamefeed data API calls.


Identified key API endpoints for baseball data extraction
Identified key API endpoints for baseball data extraction








This is exactly what we needed! The critical discovery is request #17: https://baseballsavant.mlb.com/gf?game_pk=776661 — this appears to be the single endpoint that loads ALL the game data. Let me fetch it now to see what it returns.


Identified comprehensive API endpoint for consolidated game data
Identified comprehensive API endpoint for consolidated game data





This is the goldmine. One single endpoint — /gf?game_pk= — returns ALL the data we need. Let me look at the key sub-objects to understand the data structure.


Examined API endpoints and data structures comprehensively
Examined API endpoints and data structures comprehensively





Now let me check the schedule endpoint to see how all games for a date come back, and specifically how doubleheaders appear.


Architected API-based pipeline for baseball data extraction
Architected API-based pipeline for baseball data extraction








We have everything we need. Let me compile the full findings.

🎯 What We Found — The Architecture Is Clear
Two clean JSON API endpoints — no browser scraping needed at all.

Endpoint 1 — Get all games for a date:

https://baseballsavant.mlb.com/schedule?date=YYYY-M-D
Returns every game with: gamePk, status.detailedState (Final / Postponed / Cancelled / In Progress), doubleHeader (N/Y/S), and gameNumber (1 or 2). This is exactly the edge case data we flagged — doubleheaders already have a dedicated field, and game status is explicit.

Endpoint 2 — Get ALL data for one game:

https://baseballsavant.mlb.com/gf?game_pk=GAMEPK
One single call per game returns everything: scoreboard with linescore, boxscore with top performers, every pitch with velocity/type/call/count/Statcast metrics, exit velocity for every ball in play, lineups, and pitcher data. The tabs on the UI (Scoreboard, Box Score, Pitch Velocity) are just filtering the same dataset already loaded from this one endpoint.

Edge case handling baked in from day one:

detailedState: "Final" → process normally
detailedState: "Postponed" → log and skip
detailedState: "Cancelled" → log and skip
doubleHeader: "Y" + gameNumber: 1 and gameNumber: 2 → process both, tag in CSV with game number
Rain delays that completed → status will be Final, no special handling needed
The pipeline in plain terms:

Script wakes up at your scheduled morning time
Hits the schedule endpoint for yesterday's date
Filters for status = Final only, logs everything else
For each gamePk, calls /gf?game_pk= and parses the JSON
Writes combined CSV with all pitch, scoreboard, and boxscore data
Website reads the latest CSV and displays it
No Claude in Chrome needed for the pipeline at all — this is pure Python with requests. Claude in Chrome was just the perfect tool to discover this. The pipeline will be faster, more reliable, and schedulable.

Ready to start writing the Python script? We can start with the schedule fetcher and build from there.

High level question before we proceed:

1) at what point in this project should i move over to claude code?
2) what is the best way to examine and clean the data of redundent and unessessary data? 

i could you excell and highlight the exact data required and use screen shots and inspected elements to decribe the desired data

what are other options?

Feb 21

Marshaled strategic insights for project workflow and data refinement
Marshaled strategic insights for project workflow and data refinement

Both great strategic questions. Here's my honest take:

1) When to move to Claude Code

Move to Claude Code the moment you start building files that need to persist, run on a schedule, or connect to each other. Specifically, that's right now — the next logical step is writing the Python pipeline script, and Claude Code is the right tool for that because it lives in your terminal, can actually run the code, install packages, read error messages, and iterate in real time. It's built for exactly this kind of project.

Claude in Chrome stays useful throughout though — any time you need to re-inspect the site, check if an endpoint changed, or debug what the browser sees. Think of them as complementary. Chrome for investigation, Code for building.

The handoff point is essentially: "We know what to build, now let's build it." That's where you are now.

2) How to examine and clean the data — your options

You're right that Excel with highlighting is one valid approach, and it has a real advantage: it's visual and unambiguous. You can literally color-code every column you want to keep. But here are all your realistic options:

Option A — Excel / Google Sheets with highlighting You export a raw sample CSV from the /gf endpoint, open it, highlight the columns you want in green and flag redundant ones in red, and screenshot it. That becomes the spec. Clean and visual, but manually intensive if the data has nested structure that doesn't flatten cleanly to columns.

Option B — Just tell me the fields you care about The JSON we saw has named fields — pitcher_name, start_speed, pitch_type, result, inning, etc. You could simply go through the raw JSON I already captured and verbally tell me "I want these, not those." That becomes the mapping spec for the script. Fastest if you know the domain.

Option C — I generate a sample flat CSV right now I take the live data we already pulled from game 776661, flatten it, and write a sample CSV with every available field. You open it, delete the columns you don't want, and send it back. The remaining columns become the schema. Very concrete, no guesswork.

Option D — Inspect elements on the actual UI tabs You look at the Scoreboard, Box Score, and Pitch Velocity tabs on the website and describe what you see visually — "I want everything in that Pitch Velocity table." I then map those visible columns back to the JSON fields. Good if you think in terms of the UI rather than raw data.

My recommendation

Do Option C first — I'll generate a sample CSV right now from the live data so you have something real and tangible to react to. Then move to Claude Code to build the actual pipeline with the agreed schema. Excel highlighting is a great confirmation step once you have a real candidate CSV in hand, but you don't need to build one manually.

Want me to generate that sample CSV from game 776661 now so you can see exactly what raw data looks like flattened?


scrape 1.txt
txt


scrape 2.txt
txt

this is what claude with chrome produced and i coppied it to a txt doument.

Feb 21

Thought for 0s
Thought for 0s

Let me read both files to understand what you've got.


Analyzed scraped data structure and identified redundant fields
Analyzed scraped data structure and identified redundant fields







Good — I've read both files fully. Here's the honest breakdown of what you've captured and what it means for your data cleaning decisions.

What these files actually are: This is the schedule endpoint response for 8/20/2025 — NOT the /gf pitch-by-pitch data. It contains two sections: WPA (win probability per at-bat) and the full MLB StatsAPI schedule object. The pitch velocity, scoreboard plate appearances, and Statcast metrics we saw earlier come from the /gf endpoint separately.

The signal-to-noise problem is very real here. Looking at the raw data, roughly 70% of it is noise. Here's the breakdown:

Worth keeping from this file:

wpa values per game — win probability swing per at-bat, genuinely useful
Game metadata: gamePk, gameDate, doubleHeader, gameNumber, status.detailedState, venue.name, dayNight, seriesDescription, scheduledInnings
Team names and IDs (home and away)
Linescore per inning (runs, hits, errors per half-inning)
Final runs/hits/errors totals
Pure noise to drop:

Player biographical data repeated on every batter/pitcher object — birthDate, birthCity, birthStateProvince, birthCountry, height, weight, gender, draftYear, mlbDebutDate. You don't need any of this for game analysis.
Redundant name formats — each player has nameFirstLast, firstLastName, lastFirstName, lastInitName, initLastName, fullFMLName, fullLFMName, nameSlug. You need exactly one. fullName wins.
Live game-state objects — defense.onDeck, defense.inHole, offense.onDeck, offense.inHole. These are mid-game cursor positions, meaningless post-game.
API link fields — every object has a /api/v1/... link reference. Useless for your CSV.
reverseHomeAwayStatus, inningBreakLength, tiebreaker, recordSource, ifNecessary, ifNecessaryDescription, calendarEventID, publicFacing — all operational metadata you'll never use.
strikeZoneTop, strikeZoneBottom on player objects in the schedule — these are live at-bat values, not what you want here.
The key insight this gives you: The data cleaning problem is almost identical across every section of this project. The MLB/Savant API is extremely verbose — it sends everything and lets the consumer filter. Your Python script just needs to be opinionated about what it picks up. You define a schema (a list of field names you want) and only write those to CSV. Everything else never gets touched.

My recommendation on how to proceed:

This is the exact moment to move to Claude Code. Here's why — the best way to do your data cleaning spec is to have me generate a sample flat CSV right now from this file, then from the /gf pitch data, so you have real columns in front of you. In Claude Code I can write that extraction script, run it against the actual JSON, produce the CSVs, and you can open them and tell me precisely which columns to keep. That conversation becomes the schema definition, and the schema definition becomes the pipeline. No guesswork, no screenshots needed — just real data you react to.

Want to take it there now, or do you want me to first generate the sample CSVs here so you can see what the column landscape looks like before switching environments?

ok. create a readme file for claude code to discover what the we have done and what goals may be. and i will include all the three txt documents in a fresh folder so claude code can read 4 files.

Feb 21

Orchestrated comprehensive README to contextualize project progress
Orchestrated comprehensive README to contextualize project progress

There's your README. Put this file in the same folder alongside Baseball_Savant_Website.txt, scrape_1.txt, and scrape_2.txt and Claude Code will have everything it needs to understand the full context without you having to explain anything twice.

A few things worth flagging before you open Claude Code:

The README instructs it to propose and confirm the column schema first before writing the full pipeline. That's an important checkpoint — let it generate sample CSVs from the scrape files and show you the columns before it starts building the extraction logic. That's your moment to say "yes/no/add this/drop that" and lock in the schema.

Also, when you start the Claude Code session, just say something like: "Read the README first, then read the three supporting files, then tell me what you understand before doing anything." That forces it to orient itself before acting, which avoids wasted work.

Readme
Document · MD 

sql set up.txt
txt


scrape_3.csv
csv

i would like to do some testing of sql with the scrape_3 csv data - if that is the correct method?

2:22 PM

Examined files to assess SQL testing methodology
Examined files to assess SQL testing methodology

Let me read both files first.


Examined CSV file for SQL testing feasibility
Examined CSV file for SQL testing feasibility

Good context. Now let me look at the CSV.


Validated CSV approach and charted testing pathway forward
Validated CSV approach and charted testing pathway forward




Good — I've read both files. Here's the full picture:

What scrape_3.csv actually is: This is pitch-level data from game 776661 (Blue Jays vs Pirates, 8/20/2025) — the exact /gf endpoint data we discovered earlier, already flattened to CSV. It has 272 rows (one per pitch) and 104 columns. This is real, clean, testable data.

Is CSV → SQL the right testing method? Yes, absolutely. And your timing is perfect — you have PostgreSQL running with baseball_db created. Loading this CSV in is the ideal first real test.

Before you do anything though, here's the honest data assessment:

Looking at the 104 columns, roughly half are candidates for dropping. Here's the breakdown:

Clearly keep (core data you'll query): game_pk, game_date, home_team, away_team, inning, ab_number, batter_name, pitcher_name, team_batting, team_fielding, pitch_type, pitch_name, start_speed, end_speed, call, call_name, description, balls, strikes, outs, result, events, is_strike_swinging, balls_and_strikes, spin_rate, plate_x, plate_z, hit_speed, hit_distance, launch_angle, xba, is_barrel, pitch_number, is_last_pitch

Likely keep (useful for analysis): stand (batter hand), p_throws (pitcher hand), zone, extension, breakX, inducedBreakZ, pfxX, pfxZ, sz_top, sz_bot, runnerOn1B, runnerOn2B, runnerOn3B, is_bip_out

Strong candidates to drop (noise):

play_id, rowId — internal MLB tracking IDs, not useful for queries
cap_index, source — internal operational fields
x0, y0, z0, ax, ay, az, vx0, vy0, vz0 — raw physics trajectory vectors, highly technical, rarely queried directly
pfxXWithGravity, pfxZWithGravity, pfxZDirection, pfxXDirection, pfxXNoAbs, ivbZDirection, inducedBreakZForcedSign — derived direction flags, redundant with the numeric break values
plateTime, plateTimeSZDepth, plateXPoly, plateYPoly, plateZPoly — internal plate calculation intermediates
player_total_pitches, player_total_pitches_pitch_types — running totals that recalculate anyway
contextMetrics — currently just {} or sparse JSON blobs
result_table — raw HTML div string (the last column in row 273 shows this)
hc_x, hc_y, hc_x_ft, hc_y_ft — hit coordinates in two different coordinate systems, pick one
batter, pitcher — numeric MLB player IDs, redundant if you have the name columns (though useful as foreign keys later)
The recommended path forward:

There are two ways to get this CSV into PostgreSQL for testing:

Option A — Use pgAdmin's Import tool (no code, right now) Right-click your baseball_db → create a table manually or use the import wizard to load the CSV directly. Good for a quick first look but limited control over data types.

Option B — Use Python + pandas (recommended) A 10-line script loads the CSV, optionally drops the junk columns, and pushes it into PostgreSQL via sqlalchemy. This is also exactly how your pipeline will work in production, so you're testing the real workflow.

My suggestion: Let me write you a short Python script right now that loads scrape_3.csv into your baseball_db, drops the identified noise columns, and creates a clean pitches table — then we run a few test SQL queries in pgAdmin to verify everything works.

Want me to do that? And confirm — are you on Windows or Mac, and do you have Python + pandas already installed?

i dont mind the noise columns right now for the test. how can i tell if i have pandas and python. before you write the 10 line script. also should i be in claude code right now?

2:30 PM

Identified user's need to verify Python and pandas installation
Identified user's need to verify Python and pandas installation

Good instinct to check first. Here's how to verify:

Open a terminal and run these two commands:

On Windows, open Command Prompt (search "cmd" in Start menu) or PowerShell. On Mac, open Terminal.

python --version
If that returns nothing or an error, try:

python3 --version
Then check pandas:

python -m pip show pandas
Tell me what those return and we'll know exactly what's installed.

Should you be in Claude Code right now?

Yes — this is exactly the moment to switch. Here's the clean reasoning:

You're about to write a Python script, run it in a terminal, connect to a local database, and iterate on it. That's Claude Code's native environment. It lives in your terminal, can run the script directly, see the error output, fix it, and run it again — all without you copying and pasting anything back and forth.

The handoff is clean right now because:

Discovery phase is done (we did that here in Claude.ai)
The README is written
You have real test data (scrape_3.csv)
You have PostgreSQL running with baseball_db ready
You know what you want to build
What to do:

Check your Python/pandas versions first (commands above)
Put the README, scrape_3.csv, Baseball_Savant_Website.txt, scrape_1.txt, and scrape_2.txt all in one folder
Open Claude Code pointed at that folder
Tell it: "Read the README first, then tell me what you understand before doing anything"
Everything we've figured out in this conversation is documented in that README — Claude Code will pick up exactly where we left off.

Python 3.13.12

Windows PowerShell
Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
Install the latest PowerShell for new features and improvements! https://aka.ms/PSWindows
PS C:\WINDOWS\system32> python --version
Python 3.13.12
PS C:\WINDOWS\system32> python -m pip show pandas
Name: pandas
Version: 2.2.3
Summary: Powerful data structures for data analysis, time series, and statistics
Home-page: https://pandas.pydata.org
Author:
Author-email: The Pandas Development Team <pandas-dev@python.org>
License: BSD 3-Clause License
Copyright (c) 2008-2011, AQR Capital Management, LLC, Lambda Foundry, Inc. and PyData Development Team
All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2023, Open source contributors.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
  contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
  this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
Location: C:\Users\Erik\AppData\Local\Packages\PythonSoftwareFoundation.Python.3.13_qbz5n2kfra8p0\LocalCache\local-packages\Python313\site-packages
Requires: numpy, python-dateutil, pytz, tzdata
Required-by: streamlit
PS C:\WINDOWS\system32>

Show more
2:32 PM

Verified dependencies and flagged Streamlit availability for dashboard project
Verified dependencies and flagged Streamlit availability for dashboard project


You're in great shape. Python 3.13 and pandas 2.2.3 — both solid.

One thing worth flagging: you can see Required-by: streamlit at the bottom. You already have Streamlit installed. That's actually the perfect tool for your baseball website — it turns Python data scripts into interactive web dashboards with almost no extra work. Keep that in mind for later.

One more check before the script. You need sqlalchemy and psycopg2 to connect pandas to PostgreSQL. Run these:

python -m pip show sqlalchemy
python -m pip show psycopg2-binary
Two possible outcomes:

If both are installed — you're ready, go straight to Claude Code now with your folder of files. You have everything needed.

If either is missing — run this to install them:

pip install sqlalchemy psycopg2-binary
Then head to Claude Code. You have everything it needs:

✅ Python 3.13
✅ pandas 2.2.3
✅ Streamlit (future website layer — already there)
✅ PostgreSQL running with baseball_db
✅ scrape_3.csv as test data
✅ README with full project context
When you open Claude Code on your project folder, the first thing to say is:

"Read the README first. Then check if sqlalchemy and psycopg2 are installed. Then write a script to load scrape_3.csv into the baseball_db PostgreSQL database and run a few test queries to confirm it worked."

That's a complete, unambiguous instruction it can execute start to finish. Everything we've built in this conversation feeds directly into that first Claude Code session.

PS C:\WINDOWS\system32> python -m pip show sqlalchemy
>> python -m pip show psycopg2-binary
WARNING: Package(s) not found: sqlalchemy
WARNING: Package(s) not found: psycopg2-binary
PS C:\WINDOWS\system32>

2:33 PM

Identified missing dependencies requiring installation
Identified missing dependencies requiring installation

Neither is installed. Easy fix — run this single command:

pip install sqlalchemy psycopg2-binary
You'll see it download and install both. When it finishes you should see something like:

Successfully installed psycopg2-binary-x.x.x sqlalchemy-x.x.x
Then verify they're there:

python -m pip show sqlalchemy
python -m pip show psycopg2-binary
Once both show version numbers, you're fully equipped and ready to move to Claude Code. Paste what you see after the install and I'll confirm you're good to go.

PS C:\WINDOWS\system32> pip install sqlalchemy psycopg2-binary
Defaulting to user installation because normal site-packages is not writeable
Collecting sqlalchemy
  Downloading sqlalchemy-2.0.46-cp313-cp313-win_amd64.whl.metadata (9.8 kB)
Collecting psycopg2-binary
  Downloading psycopg2_binary-2.9.11-cp313-cp313-win_amd64.whl.metadata (5.1 kB)
Requirement already satisfied: greenlet>=1 in c:\users\erik\appdata\local\packages\pythonsoftwarefoundation.python.3.13_qbz5n2kfra8p0\localcache\local-packages\python313\site-packages (from sqlalchemy) (3.3.1)
Requirement already satisfied: typing-extensions>=4.6.0 in c:\users\erik\appdata\local\packages\pythonsoftwarefoundation.python.3.13_qbz5n2kfra8p0\localcache\local-packages\python313\site-packages (from sqlalchemy) (4.13.2)
Downloading sqlalchemy-2.0.46-cp313-cp313-win_amd64.whl (2.1 MB)
   ---------------------------------------- 2.1/2.1 MB 3.2 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Downloading psycopg2_binary-2.9.11-cp313-cp313-win_amd64.whl (2.7 MB)
   ---------------------------------------- 2.7/2.7 MB 3.0 MB/s eta 0:00:00
Installing collected packages: sqlalchemy, psycopg2-binary
Successfully installed psycopg2-binary-2.9.11 sqlalchemy-2.0.46
[notice] A new release of pip is available: 25.1.1 -> 26.0.1
[notice] To update, run: C:\Users\Erik\AppData\Local\Microsoft\WindowsApps\PythonSoftwareFoundation.Python.3.13_qbz5n2kfra8p0\python.exe -m pip install --upgrade pip
PS C:\WINDOWS\system32>

Show more
2:35 PM

Verified successful package installation completion
Verified successful package installation completion

Both installed perfectly.

✅ SQLAlchemy 2.0.46
✅ psycopg2-binary 2.9.11
You are fully ready for Claude Code. Here's your complete checklist before you open it:

Your folder should contain these 4 files:

README.md (the one we created)
scrape_3.csv (pitch-level test data)
scrape_1.txt or scrape_2.txt (schedule endpoint sample)
Baseball_Savant_Website.txt (original notes)
Your first message to Claude Code:

"Read the README first. Then write a script to load scrape_3.csv into the baseball_db PostgreSQL database on localhost port 5432. After loading, run a few test queries to confirm the data is there — row count, a sample of pitchers, and average pitch velocity by pitch type."

One thing to have ready: Claude Code will need your PostgreSQL password — the one you created during installation. It'll ask for it when writing the connection string. That string will look like:

postgresql://postgres:YOURPASSWORD@localhost:5432/baseball_db
That's it. Everything we've done in this conversation — the API discovery, the data structure analysis, the README, the environment setup — all feeds cleanly into that first Claude Code session. Good luck, and feel free to come back here if anything needs revisiting at the architecture or design level.





Claude is AI and can make mistakes. Please double-check responses.


